introduction to rancher-vcluster addon (#393)
harvester/docs: docs/advanced/rancher-vcluster.md

---
sidebar_position: 8
sidebar_label: Rancher Vcluster
title: "Rancher Vcluster (Experimental)"
---

<head>

>   <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.1/advanced/rancher-vcluster"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.harvesterhci.io/dev/advanced/rancher-vcluster"/>
```

Reviewer: Need to reconfirm with @LucasSaintarbor

</head>

_Available as of v1.2.0_

> The `rancher-vcluster` addon allows users to run `rancher` as workload on the underlying harvester cluster using [vcluster](https://www.vcluster.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `rancher-vcluster` addon allows you to run Rancher as a workload on the underlying Harvester cluster using [vcluster](https://www.vcluster.com/).
```

![](/img/v1.2/vm-import-controller/EnableAddon.png)

> The addon runs a nested k3s cluster in the `rancher-vcluster` namespace, and deploys `rancher` to this cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The addon runs a nested K3s cluster in the `rancher-vcluster` namespace and deploys Rancher to this cluster.
```

> As part of the install the ingress for rancher is sync'd to the harvester cluster. This allows end users to access this `rancher`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the installation, the ingress for Rancher is synced to the Harvester cluster, allowing end users to access Rancher.
```

> ## Installing rancher-vcluster addon

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installing rancher-vcluster
```

> The `rancher-vcluster` addon is not package with harvester. It is available in the [expreimental-addon repo](https://github.com/harvester/experimental-addons)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `rancher-vcluster` addon is not packaged with Harvester, but you can find it in the [expreimental-addon repo](https://github.com/harvester/experimental-addons).
```

> To install the addon users need to perform the following steps:
> 
> _This assumes user is using the harvester kubeconfig_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming you are using the Harvester kubeconfig, you can run the following commands to install the addon:

```

```
git clone https://github.com/harvester/experimental-addons
kubectl apply -f experimental-addons/rancher-vcluster/rancher-vcluster.yaml
```

> ## Configuring rancher-vcluster addon

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuring rancher-vcluster
```

> To enable the `rancher-vcluster` some mandatory items are need for the addon config:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installing the addon, you need to configure it from the Harvester UI as follows:
```

> 
> ![](/img/v1.2/rancher-vcluster/VclusterConfig.png)
> 
> The addon config requires the following input:
> * Hostname: A valid dns record pointing to the harvester vip. This is essential as the vcluster ingress is synced to the parent harvester cluster. A valid hostname is used to filter traffic by ingress to the vcluster workload.
> * Bootstrap Password: The bootstrap password for the new rancher deploy on vcluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

1. Click **Advanced** > **Addons**.
1. Find the `rancher-vcluster` addon and click **⋮ > Edit Config**.

![](/img/v1.2/rancher-vcluster/VclusterConfig.png)

1. In the **Hostname** field, enter a valid DNS record pointing to the Harvester VIP. This is essential as the vcluster ingress is synced to the parent Harvester cluster. A valid hostname is used to filter ingress traffic to the vcluster workload.
1. In the **Bootstrap Password** field, enter the bootstrap password for the new Rancher deployed on the vcluster.
```

Reviewer: Using standardized steps is better. Please double-check if the steps I rewrote are correct

> Once the addon is deployed, it can take a few minutes for rancher to be available. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the addon is deployed, it can take a few minutes for Rancher to become available. 
```

> Users can then access this rancher via the Hostname dns record supplied during install.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then access Rancher via the hostname DNS record that you provided.
```

> The new rancher can then be used to manage the underlying harvester cluster using the [rancher integration](../rancher/virtualization-management)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rancher can now be used to manage the underlying Harvester cluster. For more information, see [Rancher Integration](../rancher/virtualization-management).
```

```
git clone https://github.com/harvester/experimental-addons
kubectl apply -f experimental-addons/rancher-vcluster/rancher-vcluster.yaml
```

## Configuring rancher-vcluster

After installing the addon, you need to configure it from the Harvester UI as follows:

1. Click **Advanced** > **Addons**.
1. Find the `rancher-vcluster` addon and click **⋮ > Edit Config**.

![](/img/v1.2/rancher-vcluster/VclusterConfig.png)

1. In the **Hostname** field, enter a valid DNS record pointing to the Harvester VIP. This is essential as the vcluster ingress is synced to the parent Harvester cluster. A valid hostname is used to filter ingress traffic to the vcluster workload.
1. In the **Bootstrap Password** field, enter the bootstrap password for the new Rancher deployed on the vcluster.

Once the addon is deployed, it can take a few minutes for Rancher to become available. 

You can then access Rancher via the hostname DNS record that you provided.

Rancher can now be used to manage the underlying Harvester cluster. For more information, see [Rancher Integration](../rancher/virtualization-management).

> ** Note: Disabling rancher-vcluster **
> 
> The `rancher-vcluster` addon is deployed on a `vcluster` statefulset. The `vcluster` statefulset uses a longhorn PVC.
> 
> When `rancher-vcluster` is disabled, the pvc `data-rancher-vcluster-0` is left behind in the `rancher-vcluster` namespace.
> 
> On a subsequent re-enable, the pvc is re-used, and Rancher will have the old state available.
> 
> Users wishing to wipe this data, should ensure that the pvc is deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note Disabling rancher-vcluster

The `rancher-vcluster` addon is deployed on a `vcluster` Statefulset that uses a Longhorn PVC.

When `rancher-vcluster` is disabled, the PVC `data-rancher-vcluster-0` will still be in the `rancher-vcluster` namespace.

If you enable the addon again, the PVC is re-used, and Rancher will have the old state available again.

If you want to wipe the data, ensure that the PVC is deleted.

:::
```

---
sidebar_position: 8
sidebar_label: Rancher Vcluster
title: "Rancher Vcluster (Experimental)"
---

<head>
  <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.harvesterhci.io/dev/advanced/rancher-vcluster"/>
</head>

_Available as of v1.2.0_

The `rancher-vcluster` addon allows you to run Rancher as a workload on the underlying Harvester cluster using [vcluster](https://www.vcluster.com/).

![](/img/v1.2/vm-import-controller/EnableAddon.png)

The addon runs a nested K3s cluster in the `rancher-vcluster` namespace and deploys Rancher to this cluster.

During the installation, the ingress for Rancher is synced to the Harvester cluster, allowing end users to access Rancher.

## Installing rancher-vcluster

The `rancher-vcluster` addon is not packaged with Harvester, but you can find it in the [expreimental-addon repo](https://github.com/harvester/experimental-addons).

Assuming you are using the Harvester kubeconfig, you can run the following commands to install the addon:

```

> git clone https://github.com/harvester/experimental-addons
> kubectl apply -f experimental-addons/rancher-vcluster/rancher-vcluster.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/harvester/experimental-addons/main/rancher-vcluster/rancher-vcluster.yaml
```

```

## Configuring rancher-vcluster

After installing the addon, you need to configure it from the Harvester UI as follows:

> 1. Click **Advanced** > **Addons**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Select **Advanced** > **Addons**.
```

> 1. Find the `rancher-vcluster` addon and click **⋮ > Edit Config**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Find the `rancher-vcluster` addon and select **⋮** > **Edit Config**.
```

![](/img/v1.2/rancher-vcluster/VclusterConfig.png)

1. In the **Hostname** field, enter a valid DNS record pointing to the Harvester VIP. This is essential as the vcluster ingress is synced to the parent Harvester cluster. A valid hostname is used to filter ingress traffic to the vcluster workload.
1. In the **Bootstrap Password** field, enter the bootstrap password for the new Rancher deployed on the vcluster.

> Once the addon is deployed, it can take a few minutes for Rancher to become available. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the addon is deployed, Rancher can take a few minutes to become available. 
```

You can then access Rancher via the hostname DNS record that you provided.

> Rancher can now be used to manage the underlying Harvester cluster. For more information, see [Rancher Integration](../rancher/virtualization-management).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
See [Rancher Integration](../rancher/virtualization-management) for more information.
```

:::note Disabling rancher-vcluster

The `rancher-vcluster` addon is deployed on a `vcluster` Statefulset that uses a Longhorn PVC.

> When `rancher-vcluster` is disabled, the PVC `data-rancher-vcluster-0` will still be in the `rancher-vcluster` namespace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When `rancher-vcluster` is disabled, the PVC `data-rancher-vcluster-0` will remain in the `rancher-vcluster` namespace.
```
